kubernetes is one of the highest trending technology in cloud computing.
kubernetes has the fastest growth in job searching.Demand for engineers with knowledge on kubernetes is on rise

need everything to be container compatible.
⇒So we need Docker, or other equivalent container runtime engine installed on all the nodes in the cluster, 
including the master nodes, if you wish to host the controlling components as containers.

Use the code - DEVOPS15 - while registering for the CKA or CKAD exams at Linux Foundation to get a 15% discount.


1. ETCD
(1)what is ETCD?
  a distributed reliable key-value store, that is simple, secure & fast
  
(2)ETCDCTL is the CLI tool used to interact with ETCD.ETCDCTL can interact with ETCD Server using 2 API versions - Version 2 and Version 3.  
By default its set to use Version 2. Each version has different sets of commands.

For example ETCDCTL version 2 supports the following commands:
etcdctl backup
etcdctl cluster-health
etcdctl mk
etcdctl mkdir
etcdctl set
etcdctl get

Whereas the commands are different in version 3
etcdctl snapshot save 
etcdctl endpoint health
etcdctl put

To set the right version of API set the environment variable ETCDCTL_API command
export ETCDCTL_API=3

When API version is not set, it is assumed to be set to version 2. And version 3 commands listed above don't work. 
When API version is set to version 3, version 2 commands listed above don't work.

Apart from that, you must also specify path to certificate files so that ETCDCTL can authenticate to the ETCD API Server. 
The certificate files are available in the etcd-master at the following path. 
--cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt     
--cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt     
--key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key

2.Kube-API Server
Running kubectl command is in fact reaching to the kube-api server.
The kube-api server first authenticates the request and then validates it. It then retrieves data from etcd cluster and responds back.
Another way is to invoke APIs directly by sending a POST request. 

WHAT happened when you send a pod creating request to kube-api server?
When you ask apiserver to create a pod without signing it to a node, after finishing 3 steps above(authenicate use, validate request,retrieve data), 
it then update ETCD cluster.The scheduler notices that there's a new pod with no node assigned, so it identifies the right node to place the pod on and
communicates that back to kube-apiserver.The kube-apiserver then updates the information into etcd. The kube-apiserver then passes that information to the
kubelet in that appropiate worker node.The kubelet then creates the pod and instructs the container runtime engine to deploy the app image.Once done, kubelet
updates the status back to the API server, who will then updates the data back into etcd.

kubectl command
kubectl run nginx --image nginx   deploy a docker container of image nginx by creating a pod
kubectl get pods                  list of pods
kubectl describe pod [podName]    get details of a pod
kubectl create/apply [filename.yaml] deploy pod by executing yaml file
kubectl apply command             Update the pod-definition file
3.Kube Controller Manager-----node controller,replication controller,
A controller is a process that continuously monitors the state of various components within the system 
process name: kube-controller-manager

4.scheduler
IS only responsible for deciding which pod goes on which node

5.kubelet
captain of the worker node

6.kube proxy
Is a process that runs on each working node in k8s cluster.Its job is to look for new services.Everytime a new service is created, it creates the appropiate
rules on each node to forward traffic to those services to the backend pods.Like, iptable rule

7.Pod
With k8s, our ultimate aim is to deploy app in the form of containers on a set of machines that are configured as worker nodes in a cluster.
However,k8s does not deploy containers directly on the worker nodes.The containers are encapsulated into a k8s object known as pod.
A pod is a single instance of an app, which is the smallest object that one can created in k8s.

8.Replication Controller(deprecated)
It helps us run multiple instances of a single pod in k8s cluster, thus providing high availability.
Even if you have a single pod, the replication controller can automatically bring up a new pod when the existing one fails.
Another thing it can do is to share the load between pods, load balancing

What's replica set? (new and recommended)





9.yaml file
contains 4 sections:apiVersion,kind,metadata, spec

Key Value Pair                                   Array/List                                                   Dictionary/Map
Fruit: Apple                                     Fruits:                                                      Banana:
Vegetable: Carrot                                -  Orange                                                        Calories: 105
Meat: Chicken                                    -  Apple                                                         Fat: 0.4 g
Liquid: Water                                                                                                 
                                                 Vegetables:                                                  Grapes:
                                                 -  Carrot                                                        Calories: 62
                                                 -  Tomato                                                        Fat: 0.3 g
                                                 
You must have equal number of blank spaces before item of the same level(sibilings)  
Those items which have extra spaces than the item above, are showing parent and children belonging relationship

Dictionary is used to store properties, unordered collection, whereas lists are ordered collection
You can always combine these 3 type together,like list of dictionary

10.
